---
layout: default
headerimg: policy_platform/FreePress_PolicyPlatform_Openess_notext.png
title: "Openness"
slug: openness
subtitle: "Support Net Neutrality to Prevent Discrimination Against Content or Users"
teaser:
icon: icons/policy-platform-icon-openess.png
thumbnail:
author:
tags:
categories:
- policy_platform
---

The Internet isn’t the private property of phone and cable companies like AT&T, Comcast and Verizon. Neither is it the domain of governments. It’s a network of networks (some private and some public) that depends on a common set of rules to function, transport information and connect people.

Any open communications network that serves the public is supposed to simply transmit content — without blocking, degrading or otherwise discriminating. The most important rule for preserving openness and free speech online is common carriage, the classification that prohibits Internet access providers from tampering with the content that flows across their pipes.

By law common carriage applies to any carrier that “holds itself out … to carry for all people.” It originally applied to transportation like railroads and ferries, but became an essential standard for the open and neutral Internet. Common carriage extends free speech principles to privately owned networks, promoting interconnection and the widest possible sharing of content while ensuring a marketplace that’s bolstered by competition.

The FCC’s 2015 Open Internet Order returned the Internet to the widely used and enforceable common-carrier standard as outlined under Title II of the Communications Act. With an open Internet, users get to decide where they go and what they do on the network. Openness allows everyone to control the creation and distribution of their own images and stories without first needing to seek permission from corporate gatekeepers. This is especially important for communities of color, who mainstream media outlets have misrepresented or otherwise mistreated. A common-carrier rule protects this decentralized flow of information. It preserves the open and democratic idea that the Internet is a space shared and shaped by its millions of users.

 1. Defend the FCC’s strong Net Neutrality rules and the agency’s decision to classify Internet access as a common-carriage “telecommunications service” under Title II of the Communications Act.

 1. Oppose unreasonable practices, such as the use of punitive and unnecessary data caps that favor the ISPs’ or their affiliates’ vertical content and services.

 1. Oppose congressional efforts to undermine the FCC’s authority to protect Net Neutrality, including riders in appropriations bills that strip the agency of the funds needed to enforce its rules.
