---
layout: default
headerimg: policy_platform/FreePress_PolicyPlatform_Openess_notext.png
title: "Openness"
slug: openness
subtitle: "Support Net Neutrality to Prevent Discrimination Against Content or Users"
teaser:
icon: icons/policy-platform-icon-openess.png
thumbnail:
author:
tags:
categories:
- policy_platform
---
The Internet isn’t the private property of phone and cable companies. Nor is it the domain of governments. It’s a network of networks (some private and some public) that depends on a common set of rules to function, transport information and connect people.

Any open communications network that serves the public directly must simply transmit content — without blocking, degrading or otherwise discriminating against it unreasonably. Internet access providers are common carriers that must not tamper with the user content that flows across their pipes. It’s this guideline — typically referred to as Net Neutrality — that extends free speech principles to privately owned networks, promoting the widest possible sharing of content without interference either from government or corporate gatekeepers.

Openness allows everyone to control the creation and distribution of their own images and stories without first needing to seek permission from these gatekeepers. This is especially important for communities of color, whom mainstream media outlets have often misrepresented and mistreated. Policies protecting Internet openness must preserve the network as a space shared and shaped by its millions of users.

 * Defend the FCC’s strong Net Neutrality rules and the agency’s decision to classify broadband Internet access as a “telecommunications service” under Title II of the Communications Act.<sup>[18](#18)<sup>

 * Oppose unreasonable practices, such as the use of punitive and unnecessary data caps that favor the ISPs’ or their affiliates’ content and services.<sup>[19](#19)<sup>

 * Oppose congressional efforts to undermine the FCC’s authority to protect Net Neutrality. These include riders in appropriations bills that strip the agency of the funds needed to enforce its rules.

<sub><a name="18">18</a>. *“[Comments of Free Press in the Matter of Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet](http://www.freepress.net/sites/default/files/resources/Free_Press_14-28_Comments_7-18-2014.pdf),” p. 34, Free Press, July 17, 2014.*

<sub><a name="19">19</a>. *For an overview of data caps, including policy recommendations, see Public Knowledge’s [online resource](https://www.publicknowledge.org/issues/data-caps).*</sub>

***

**<sub>Have feedback? <a href="mailto:info@freepress.net">Write us</a>.</sub>**
