---
layout: default
headerimg: policy_platform/FreePress_PolicyPlatform_Access_notext.png
title: "Access"
subtitle: "Universal Access to a Fast and Affordable Communications Platform"
teaser:
thumbnail:
categories:
- policy_platform
---

If we want to bring our economy into the 21st century, we need to treat affordable and fast Internet access as the public necessity it is. If we hope to engage everyone in conversations about civic life and politics, we need to remove any and all obstacles to getting a high-speed connection. If we want to give everyone the economic and educational opportunities that Internet access affords, we need to treat high-speed broadband infrastructure as essential as other utilities like water and electricity.

Unfortunately, there’s a digital divide in the United States: More than 25 percent of U.S. households aren’t connected to high-speed services. A disproportionately high number of those are homes in low-income communities, including Latino, Native American and Black households as well as households in rural parts of the country that tend to have fewer choices and slower connections.

Those stranded on the wrong side of the digital divide cite high broadband costs and the limited availability of broadband services as the primary barriers to getting online. Policymakers who tend to focus on gigabit deployments and speed need to shift their emphasis to affordability and competition. The social and economic benefits of expanding access are clear and well documented.

To overcome these challenges our political leaders need to make affordable and open access to high-quality broadband services a reality for everyone.

 1. Increase infrastructure investments to improve aging networks and extend high-speed services to underserved communities.

 1. Pursue robust competition policy to ensure widespread access and affordability (more under “Choice” below).

 1. Open up more unlicensed spectrum so that growth in wireless broadband continues, and public Wi-Fi becomes more widely accessible.

 1. Promote and safeguard municipal broadband networks, which offer low-cost options in communities where few to no other choices exist.  

 1. Invest in education and training to remove computer and media literacy barriers that impede access.

 1. Support programs that seek to connect 100 percent of public K–12 classrooms and libraries to high-speed broadband services by 2020.

 1. Continue to modernize and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Universal Service Fund and Lifeline programs. Emphasize boosting broadband access under these programs while exploring other incentives to bring more people online.
