---
layout: default
headerimg: policy_platform/FreePress_PolicyPlatform_Privacy_notext.png
title: "Privacy"
slug: privacy
subtitle: "Protect Users’ Personal Information and the Right to Communicate in Private"
teaser:
icon: icons/policy-platform-icon-privacy.png
thumbnail:
author:
tags:
categories:
- policy_platform
---
Online privacy is under constant assault from a federal, state and local surveillance apparatus that is often rationalized but not fully justified in the name of improving security. Too often intelligence agencies find willing accomplices to this surveillance in the private sector, especially among those platforms that host or transmit our communications. Many of these companies are in the business of aggregating user data and yet they often fail to adhere to their own privacy policies when it comes to protecting consumers.

Since the 9/11 attacks, Congress has passed legislation that gives broad discretion to the National Security Agency, the Department of Homeland Security, the FBI and others to surveil and collect the private online communications of people in the United States and abroad. On the local level, police forces have ramped up the use of technology in their ongoing, targeted surveillance of particular communities. Intelligence officials have also misinterpreted the law in ways that threaten our constitutional rights, including our rights to free expression, assembly, due process and privacy.

Intelligence agencies often collaborate with Internet and telecommunications companies that store personal data from hundreds of millions of people. Once companies share this information with government entities, it can be used and abused in ways that threaten the rights of innocent people. History has shown that federal, state and local authorities [disproportionately use such data to target and intimidate communities of color and political activists](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/02/history-surveillance-and-black-community). The rules that govern access to digital data are often created without any transparency, oversight or accountability.

We need to establish the correct balance between civil liberties and national security. This means a full review of all national security legislation, including the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and the Espionage Act, that authorities have misinterpreted and used to spy on our online communications.

 * Rescind provisions of the Patriot Act and the FISA Amendments Act that fail to protect our constitutional rights and promote transparency and accountability. Special attention must be paid to ending the FISA Amendments Act’s Section 702 collection of user data.<sup>[7](#7)<sup>

 * Oppose so-called cybersecurity legislation that indemnifies telecom providers, Internet companies and social networks for turning over sensitive personal data to authorities.<sup>[8](#8)<sup>

 * [Challenge the authority of Executive Order 12333](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/06/primer-executive-order-12333-mass-surveillance-starlet), which gives intelligence agencies broad discretion to spy on U.S. residents and collect, retain and share their personal data.

 * Oppose legal limits to encryption systems that make them vulnerable to backdoor hacks and other incursions by government authorities.

 * Support the Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights so that companies that aren’t subject to existing federal data privacy laws are held to account for the ways they collect, use and share sensitive user information. Any new legislation would respect users’ desire to use the Web anonymously by honoring “Do Not Track” requests and giving users access to their data upon request.<sup>[9](#9)<sup>

 * Advocate for changes to the federal government’s guidance for law enforcement agencies to eliminate discriminatory profiling from policing and surveillance.<sup>[10](#10)<sup>

<sub><a name="7">7</a>: *See the online resources on Section 702 at the [Brennan Center for Justice](https://www.brennancenter.org/sites/default/files/analysis/Government%20Surveillance%20Factsheet.pdf).*</sub>

<sub><a name="8">8</a>: *The most recent iteration of this type of legislation is the Cyber Information Sharing Act, or CISA, introduced in 2015. See Access’ [online resource](https://www.accessnow.org/blog/2015/03/04/the-cisa-2.0-frequently-asked-questions-faq).*</sub>

<sub><a name="9">9</a>: *For more on the Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights, see EPIC’s [online resource](https://epic.org/privacy/white_house_consumer_privacy_.html) and the list of [supporting organizations](https://epic.org/privacy/Obama-CPBR.pdf) that sent a February 2014 letter to the White House calling for protection reforms.*</sub>

<sub><a name="10">10</a>: *The ACLU has supported efforts to amend these federal guidelines so that they more clearly prohibit discriminatory profiling both online and off. See the organization’s [online resource](https://www.aclu.org/issues/national-security/discriminatory-profiling).*</sub>
