---
layout: default
headerimg: policy_platform/FreePress_PolicyPlatform_Choice_notext.png
title: "Choice"
slug: choice
subtitle: "Protect personal user information and the right to communicate in private."
teaser:
icon: icons/policy-platform-icon-choice.png
author:
tags:
categories:
- policy_platform
---

While more U.S. Internet users are demanding faster services, affordable and competitive options available have declined. According to government data, approximately 75 percent of U.S. homes have at most one choice for broadband access of a minimum 25 Mbps download speeds. Nearly 20 percent of those homes have zero choices. It’s even worse for those seeking download speeds of 50 Mbps or higher: More than 82 percent of U.S. households have a “choice” of one provider at most.

There are few to no options for affordable, high-speed broadband for almost all of us. Allowing a small handful of companies to dominate U.S. Internet access hasn’t just been bad for Internet users. It’s also put our country behind other developed nations in terms of broadband affordability. We need to increase the number of broadband options to make these essential services more affordable for households of color and other communities on the wrong side of the digital divide. We also need to give communities more opportunities to build their own networks.

Policymakers need to reject industry claims that a wealth of competitive choices exists and renew their commitment to ensuring that consumers have real options. The industry is moving in the opposite direction, favoring mergers and acquisitions over competing head to head with each other. If the marketplace isn’t yielding real choices, the FCC has a congressionally defined responsibility to “accelerate deployment of such capability by removing barriers to infrastructure investment and by promoting competition.” The agency needs to take this mandate seriously and oppose the industry’s drift toward unregulated monopoly.

Many European and Asian countries offer more choices and higher speeds at lower costs thanks to policies that facilitate a robust wholesale market in the “last mile.” These policies have opened the local broadband infrastructure — the pipes that connect the networks to your home — to multiple competitors. In the United States, the company that installs the “last mile” has a natural monopoly over selling access. Policies that facilitate a wholesale market in the last mile have worked in countries like the Netherlands, France and Japan. It’s worth revisiting this approach in the U.S. as well. Other recommendations:

 1. Oppose any further consolidation of the few phone and cable companies that control access for the vast majority of Americans.

 1. Preempt state legislation that either prohibits or hinders communities’ ability to build their own broadband networks while creating new incentives for cities and towns to create homegrown options.

 1. Encourage deployment of competitive last-mile infrastructure, both by new entrants and incumbents expanding beyond their existing footprints, through policies that remove deployment barriers and incentivize investment, particularly in underserved areas.

 1. Support policies that open up last-mile infrastructure to several competitors.

 1. Incorporate broadband capacity into infrastructure projects by expanding the adoption of a “dig once” policy that incorporates wholesale broadband conduits, plastic pipes that house fiber-optic communications cable, into the construction of federal highways.
