---
layout: default
headerimg: policy_platform/FreePress_PolicyPlatform_Access_notext.png
title: "Access"
slug: access
subtitle: "Universal Access to a Fast and Affordable Communications Platform"
teaser:
icon: icons/policy-platform-icon-access.png
thumbnail:
categories:
- policy_platform
---
If we want to ensure that everyone has an equal opportunity to engage in our civic life and shape our political future, we must remove obstacles to high-speed Internet access. Unfortunately, there’s a digital divide in the United States: More than 25 percent of U.S. households aren’t connected to high-speed services. A disproportionately high number of those are homes in low-income communities, including Black, Latino and Native American households, as well as in rural communities that tend to have fewer choices and slower connections.<sup>[6](#6)<sup>

People stranded on the wrong side of the digital divide cite high broadband costs and the limited availability of broadband services as major barriers to getting online. Policymakers need to shift their emphasis to promoting not just faster speeds but affordability and competition. The social and economic benefits of expanding access are clear and well documented.<sup>[7](#7)<sup>

To overcome these challenges, our elected leaders need to make affordable access to open, high-quality broadband services a reality for everyone.

 * Open up more spectrum for uses like next-generation Wi-Fi so that growth in wireless broadband continues and affordable public Wi-Fi becomes more widely accessible.

 * Promote and safeguard community-based and municipal broadband networks, which promise low-cost options in communities where few to no other choices exist. Preempt state legislation that either prohibits or hinders communities’ ability to build their own networks.<sup>[8](#8)<sup>

 * Explore other federal, state and local programs as well as market-based initiatives to lower users’ costs and increase the choices they have.

 * Continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Universal Service Fund, including the Lifeline program. Emphasize boosting broadband access and adoption under these programs.<sup>[9](#9)<sup>

<sub><a name="6">6</a>. *U.S. Census Bureau, Current Population Survey, Internet Use Supplements, 2013.*</sub>

<sub><a name="7">7</a>. *According to a 2012 ITU study, expanding access to affordable broadband services has “considerable positive spillover effects on the economy,” both in terms of fostering GDP growth and creating employment in the countries studied.*</sub>

<sub><a name="8">8</a>. *For a list of policies to promote municipal networks, see the [Institute for Local Self-Reliance’s online resource](http://ilsr.org/rules/?contenttype=broadband-rule-archive).*

<sub><a name="9">9</a>. *See “[Lifeline: Affordable Telephone Service for Income-Eligible Subscribers](https://www.fcc.gov/guides/lifeline-and-link-affordable-telephone-service-income-eligible-consumers),” FCC.*
