---
layout: default
headerimg: policy_platform/FreePress_PolicyPlatform_Choice_notext.png
title: "Choice"
slug: choice
subtitle: "Diverse and Decentralized with a Competitive Choice of Providers"
teaser:
icon: icons/policy-platform-icon-choice.png
author:
tags:
categories:
- policy_platform
---
While more U.S. Internet users are demanding faster services, the number of affordable and competitive options available has declined. According to government data, approximately 75 percent of U.S. homes have at most one choice for broadband access providing a minimum of 25 Mbps download speed. Nearly 20 percent of U.S. homes have zero choices. It’s even worse for those seeking download speeds of 50 Mbps or higher: More than 82 percent of U.S. households have a “choice” of one provider at most at that speed.<sup>[10](#10)<sup>

Allowing a small handful of companies to dominate U.S. Internet access hasn’t just been bad for Internet users. It’s also put our country behind other developed nations in terms of broadband affordability. We need to increase the number of broadband options to make these essential services more affordable. Policymakers should also reject broadband incumbents’ false claims that a wealth of competitive choices exists, and renew their commitment to ensuring that consumers have real options.

The industry is moving in the opposite direction, with companies favoring mergers and acquisitions over competing head to head with each other. The Federal Communications Commission has a congressionally mandated responsibility to “accelerate deployment of such capability by removing barriers to infrastructure investment and by promoting competition.” The agency needs to take this mandate seriously and oppose the drift toward monopoly.  

 * Oppose further consolidation of the few massive phone and cable companies that control access for the vast majority of Americans.

 * Revisit policies that facilitate a wholesale market in “last-mile” broadband networks &mdash; with multiple access options available via a single pipe into homes and businesses.<sup>[6](#6)<sup>

 * Remove other barriers to competition, often imposed by broadband incumbents, at both the middle- and last-mile of networks.

 * Promote mobile broadband competition by taking a serious look at spectrum concentration; act to reduce the stranglehold that the two largest carriers have over the most valuable spectrum &mdash; both in upcoming license auctions and in terms of what these companies already control today.  

<sub><a name="10">10</a>. *Prepared remarks of FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler, “[The Facts and Future of Broadband Competition](https://www.fcc.gov/document/chairman-remarks-facts-and-future-broadband-competition),” FCC, Sept. 4, 2014.*

<sub><a name="11">11</a>. *Wholesaling has worked in countries like the Netherlands, France and Japan. See “[Next Generation Connectivity](https://transition.fcc.gov/stage/pdf/Berkman_Center_Broadband_Study_13Oct09.pdf),” Berkman Center for Internet & Society, October 2009*.</sub>
