---
layout: default
headerimg: policy_platform/FreePress_PolicyPlatform_Policy_Platform_notext.png
title: "Internet Policy Platform"
slug: intro
teaser:
thumbnail:
icon: icons/toolkit-icons-Policy-Platform2.png
author:
tags:
categories:
- policy_platform
---
In the United States, tens of millions of people have already demonstrated their support for public interest-driven Internet policies and their opposition to legislation that threatens our online rights. A growing community of advocates and activists worked together to defeat the PIPA and SOPA Web censorship legislation in 2012. We’ve formed a deep grassroots coalition to oppose mass surveillance of our communications. And most recently, we’ve mobilized to secure strong Net Neutrality rules and oppose cable industry mergers.

No other communications medium in history has had such vast potential to help drive social change and improve the lives of so many so quickly. And yet the Internet's benefits have not been evenly distributed. We need to ensure that the Internet serves the public — and doesn’t harm communities by furthering inequality or discrimination.<sup>[1](#1)</sup> To do this, our communications policies must be rooted in the principles of free speech, access, choice, privacy and openness.  

Internet users form a vast and powerful constituency that’s been working together for more than a decade to protect our rights. We’re ready to vote with our values in 2016. **The policy platform outlined below reflects the principles and priorities of millions of Internet voters.**

###Principles

There is a global consensus among Internet users, digital rights advocates and activists on the principles that must guide any policymaking that affects the Internet:<sup>[2](#2)</sup>

 * **Free Speech:** Freedom of expression online and offline. Don’t censor the Internet.
 * **Access:** Universal access to fast and affordable communications platforms.
 * **Choice:** Diverse, decentralized and open infrastructure with a competitive choice of providers.
 * **Privacy:** Protect users’ personal information and the right to communicate in private.
 * **Openness:** Support Net Neutrality to prevent discrimination against content or users; protect everyone’s right to create and innovate without permission.

The Internet 2016 policy platform aims to promote these principles and fulfill the Internet voter’s vision for a healthier and more inclusive democracy. We welcome your feedback, <a href="mailto:info@freepress.net">please write us</a>. 

<sub><a name="1">1</a>. *For more on the Internet’s role in social movements, read “[The Digital CultureSHIFT: From Scale to Power](http://centerformediajustice.org/digital-culture-shift-from-scale-to-power/),” Center for Media Justice, ColorOfChange.org and Data & Society, August 2015.*

<sub><a name="2">2</a>. *These principles were established by consensus through a global series of deliberative forums over the past five years, including the [Declaration of Internet Freedom](http://www.internetdeclaration.org/) in 2012 and the 2014 [Web We Want](https://webwewant.org/about_us) proceeding convened by Sir Tim Berners Lee.*</sub>

