---
layout: default
headerimg: policy_platform/FreePress_PolicyPlatform_Policy_Platform_notext.png
title: "Internet Policy Platform"
teaser:
thumbnail:
icon: 
author:
tags:
categories:
- policy_platform
---
Access to an open and affordable Internet gives people the power to speak for themselves, earn a living, be entertained, learn what’s happening in their communities and organize for change.

No other medium in history has had such vast potential to improve the lives of so many. And yet the benefits of this technology have not been evenly distributed. We need to ensure that the Internet serves the public — and doesn’t harm communities by furthering inequality or discrimination. To do this, our communications policies must be rooted in the principles of free speech, access, privacy, choice and openness.

In the United States, tens of millions of people have already demonstrated their support for public interest-driven Internet policies and their opposition to legislation that sacrifices our online rights. We worked together to defeat the PIPA and SOPA Web censorship legislation in 2012. We’ve formed a deep grassroots coalition to oppose mass surveillance of our digital communications. And most recently, we’ve mobilized to secure strong Net Neutrality rules.

The open Internet has served as a catalyst for powerful new social movements. The #BlackLivesMatter movement found a massive audience because it was built on an open and neutral Internet. The absence of online gatekeepers enabled this movement — and so many others — to engage millions and inspire them to take action.

Tens of millions of people have taken action to defend their digital rights. Together we form a new and dynamic constituency of Internet voters — people from across the political spectrum who recognize that access to an open and affordable Internet is the foundation for building powerful movements. We’ve been working together for more than a decade to build our collective strength, protect our rights and vote with our values.

We submit this policy platform to political candidates as part of our bold vision for the country. We believe that universal access to an open, affordable and secure Internet can help fuel economic growth, create new jobs, amplify the voices of marginalized communities, boost civic participation, and strengthen our democracy.

### Principles

Successful communications policies are grounded in the five following principles. These were established by consensus through a series of deliberative forums over the past five years, including the Declaration of Internet Freedom in 2012 and the 2014 Web We Want proceeding convened by Sir Tim Berners Lee:

  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm-2">Free Speech: Freedom of expression online and offline. Don’t censor the Internet.</div>
    <div class="col-sm-2">Access: Universal access to a fast and affordable communications platform.</div>
    <div class="col-sm-2">Privacy: Protect personal user information and the right to communicate in private.</div>
    <div class="col-sm-2">Choice: Diverse, decentralized and open infrastructure with a competitive choice of providers.</div>
    <div class="col-sm-2">Openness: Support Net Neutrality to prevent discrimination against content or users; protect everyone’s right to create and innovate without permission.</div>
  </div>

The Internet 2016 policy platform aims to promote these principles and fulfill the Internet voter’s vision for a healthier and more inclusive democracy.
